*Category 1: Game Play
%A. Heuristic: Enduring Play
A1 The players find the game fun with no repetitive or boring tasks.
A2 The players should not experience being penalized repetitively for the same failure. 
A3 The players should not lose any hard won possessions.
A4 Gameplay is long and enduring and keeps the players' interest.
A5 Any fatigue or boredom was minimized by varying activities and pacing during the game play.
%B. Heuristic: Challenge Strategy and Pace
B1 Challenge strategy and pace are in balance
B2 The game is paced to apply pressure without frustrating the players. The difficulty level varies so the players experience greater challenges as they develop master.
B3 Easy to learn harder to master. 
B4 Challenges are positive game experiences rather than negative experiences. This results in wanting to play more rather than quitting. 
B5 AI is balanced with the players' play.
B6 The AI is tough enough that the players have to try different tactics against it.
%C. Heuristic: Consistency in Game World
C1 The game world reacts to the player and remembers their passage through it. 
C2 Changes the player make in the game world are persistent and noticeable if they back-track to where they have been before.
%D. Heuristic: Goals
D1 The game goals are clear. The game provides clear goals/presents overriding goals early/as well as short term goals throughout game play.
D2 The skills needed to attain goals are taught early enough to play or use later or right before the new skill is needed. 
D3 The game gives rewards that immerse the player more deeply in the game  by increasing their capabilities (capacity or for example) expanding their ability to customize. 
%E. Heuristic: Variety of Players and Game Styles
E1 The game supports a variety of game styles.
E2 The game is balanced with multiple ways to win.
E3 The first ten minutes of play and player actions are painfully obvious and should result in immediate and positive feedback for all types of players.
E4 The game had diffferent AI settings so that it was challenging to all levels of players whether novice or expert players. 
%F. Heuristic: Players Perception of Control
F1 Players feel in control.
F2 The player's have a sense of control and influence on the game world.
*Category 2: Coolness/Entertainment/Humor/Emotional Immersion
%A. Heuristic: Emotional Connection
A1 There is an emotional connection between the player and the game world as wellas with their "avatar". 
%B. Heuristic: Coolness/Entertainment
B1 The game offers something different in terms of attracting and retaining the players' interest.
%C. Heuristic: Humor
C1 The game uses humor well.
%D. Heuristic: Immersion
D1 The game utilizes visceral/audio/visual content to further the players' immersion in the game.
*Category 3: Usability and Game Mechanics
%A. Heuristic: Documentation/Tutorial
A1 Player does not need to read the manual or documentation to play.
A2 Player does not need to access the tutorial in order to play.
%B. Heuristic: Status and Score
B1 Game controls are consistent within the game and follow standard conventions.
B2 Status score Indictators are seamless/obvious/available and do not interfere with game play.
B3 Controls are intuitive and mapped in a natural way; they are customizable and default to industry standard settings.
B4 Consistency shortens the learning curve by following the trends set by the gaming industry to meet users' expectations. If no industry standard exists perform usability/playability research to ascertain the best mapping for the majority of intended players.
%C. Heuristic: Game Provides Feedback
C1 Game provides feedback and reacts in a consistent/immediate/challenging and exciting way to the players' actions.
C2 Provide appropriate audio.visual/visceral feedback (music/sound effects/controller vibration).
%D. Heuristic: Terminology
D1 The game goals are clear. The game provides clear goals presents overriding goals early as well as short term goals throughout game play.
D2 The skills needed to attain goals are taught early enough to play or use later or right before the new skill is needed. 
D3 The game gives rewards that immerse the player more deeply in the game by increasing their capabilities/capacity or expanding their ability to customize.
%E. Heuristic: Burden On Player
E1 The game does not put an unneccessary burden on the player.
E2 Player is given controls that are basic enough to learn quickly yet expandable for advanced options for advanced players.
%F. Heuristic: Screen Layout
F1 Screen layout is efficient integrated and visually pleasing. 
F2 The player experiencees the user interface as consistent (in controller/color/typographic/dialogue and user interface design).
F3 The players experience the user interface/HUD as part of the game.
F4 Art is recognizable to the player and speaks to its function.
%G. Heuristic: Navigation
G1 Navigation is consistent logical and minimalist. 
%H. Heuristic: Error Prevention
H1 Player error is avoided.
H2 Player Interruption is supported so that players can easily turn the game on and off and be able to save the games in different states.
H3 Upon turning on the game the player has enough information to begin play.
H4 Players should be given context sensitive help while playing so that they are not stuck and need to rely on a manual for help.
H5 All levels of players are able to play and get involved quickly and easily with tutorials and/or progressive or adjustable difficulty levels.
%I. Heuristic: Game Story 
I1 Game story encourages immersion (if game has story component). 
